Initial Feedback (#1)
uniswapfoundation/v4-doc-drafts: protocol-concepts/PoolManager.md

# PoolManager

In Uniswap V3, each liquidity pool was represented by a separate smart contract deployed through the UniswapV3Factory contract. While this approach provided flexibility, it also led to increased gas costs for pool creation and multi-hop swaps.
Uniswap V4 addresses this issue by introducing the Singleton design pattern. The PoolManager contract now serves as a single entry point for all liquidity pools. Instead of deploying separate contracts for each pool, the pool state and logic are encapsulated within the PoolManager itself.

## Purpose

The primary purpose of the `PoolManager` is to:
- Efficiently manage liquidity pools
- Facilitate token swaps
- Reduce gas costs compared to the factory-based approach in Uniswap V3
- Enable extensibility through hooks

## Architecture

### Singleton Design
- Uniswap V4 uses a Singleton design pattern for the `PoolManager`
- All pool state and logic are encapsulated within the `PoolManager` contract

### Locking Mechanism

> - The `PoolManager` uses a locking mechanism to ensure atomicity and correctness of operations that happen in hooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `PoolManager` uses a locking mechanism to allow for _flash accounting_ (also known as deferred balance accounting)
```

- The contract can be locked and unlocked using the `unlock` function

> - When unlocked, the calling contract can perform various operations and settle outstanding balances before returning control to the `PoolManager`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When unlocked, the calling contract can perform various operations and zero-out outstanding balances before returning control to the `PoolManager` for final solvency checks
```

(try to refrain from using _settle_ to describe zero'ing out deltas because its a function name that specifically means to pay the PM. we've been using the terms zero-out or resolving)

### Pool State

> - The `PoolManager` maintains a mapping called `_pools`, which associates a `PoolId` with its corresponding `Pool.State` struct

Reviewer: we can probably exclude this line, or at least make it more high-level. we can exclude implementation details from protocol concepts

- The `Pool.State` struct contains information such as:
    - Current price
    - Liquidity
    - Tick bitmap
    - Fee growth
    - Position information

### Libraries
- The pool logic is implemented using Solidity libraries to keep the `PoolManager` contract modular and gas-efficient
- These libraries are:
    - `Pool`: Contains core pool functionality, such as swaps and liquidity management
    - `Hooks`: Handles the execution of hook functions
    - `Position`: Manages liquidity positions within a pool

## Core Functionality

### Pool Creation
- New pools are created by calling the `initialize` function on the `PoolManager`
- The pool creator specifies the token pair, fee tier, tick spacing, and optional hook contract address
- The `PoolManager` initializes the pool state and associates it with a unique `PoolId`

### Swaps

> - Swaps are initiated through the `swap` function on the `PoolManager`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Swaps are initiated through the `swap` function on the `PoolManager`, typically via a swap router contract
```
